Welcome, today,
we're here to talk about accessibility.
I'm Marcy Sutton Todd, and I am so
excited to share what I know
about web accessibility with you.
I wanted to tell a quick story
about how I got into accessibility,
because we're recording this
course here in Minneapolis.
You're probably watching it from
wherever you are in the world, but
I got into accessibility kind
of because of Minneapolis.
Target is here,
big retailer in the United States,
and I worked at an agency
that had Target as a client.
As a front-end developer,
I was assigned to work on that
client on all those projects.
I didn't know anything
about accessibility.
Nothing, I had made all of
the common faux pas, right?
The code I wrote was a lot of
action script before that.
So I didn't know anything
about accessibility, but
I learned that I really cared about it.
The more I learned about accessibility and
how I could work it into my
front-end code and design, and
all the things we'll learn about today,
I really started to care about it.
And once I met people with disabilities
who would benefit from the work that we
could do together on web accessibility,
it just clicked for me.
It's something that I've never been able
to turn off in my mind, I'm always asking
about it in people's code reviews and
design reviews, and all of that.
And that's my hope for
you is that it will click.
And be inviting,
cuz we don't know everything.
I can't even possibly cover
everything today, but
I can share with you a process of learning
and understanding of accessibility.
Where to go to learn more and
some of the basic things that as
professional front-end developers,
so that's my goal for today.
So what is accessibility?
It really is ensuring that people
can use the experiences that we
build regardless of their
physical ability, mental ability.
That they can interact
with these services and
products that we're
putting out on the web.
It also means that people
can contribute to the web.
So if we're making authoring tools or,
I mean, a lot of services
that we're building these days
are things we use in the workplace,
HR software, banking software.
I mean, all of those things are really
important to be accessible, right?
So this topic can apply to so
many different things.
And I think sometimes
organizations get that.
It starts to get real muddy when
it's less of a clear requirement.
In agencies where you can kind of
ship stuff without anyone really
holding you accountable,
I think we can do better, though.
I work in an agency now, too,
again, and it's great, but
the requirements
are a little bit more loose.
And so sometimes we really have to be
the champions within our workplaces
to get people to understand the cost of
what not doing accessibility would mean.
So the cost, really, to kind of get into
that is that someone with a disability
wouldn't be able to use your web
application or your website.
They might not be able to independently
enter their bank details or something.
Becomes a privacy issue or
a security issue, and so
it sort of snowballs into being
a bigger cost for those individuals.
But those individuals
are often marginalized, so
that's kinda the heart of
what we're getting at,
is not marginalizing people
who have a disability.
It's kind of a, I don't know, heavy
feeling when you really think about it.
It's not just edge cases here, these
are real people that we're talking about.
So it's foundational, and there is
a rich history of disability rights and
activism to try and
make things more accessible.
Here, I have a picture of the Capitol
Crawl from the 70s where people physically
put their bodies on inaccessible stairways
to advocate for accessible spaces.
Including the Americans with
Disabilities Act, which is a big piece of
legislation in the United States that
codified a lot of these requirements.
And so people have been fighting for
access for decades.
And it's really relevant to us now
in that we're still pushing for
the web to be accessible.
We have some benefits of being developers,
and
that it's a lot easier to rebuild
a digital space than a physical space.
So we can incrementally improve things.
We can totally tear it down and
start over without having to tear
it down a physical building.
We can make changes to things a little
bit easier in a lot of cases, not always.
I work on a code base that
is not that easy to change.
So it does take some effort and
some planning and
lots of development cycles,
but it can be done.
So really recognize that
history of activism.
That's kind of an important part of
it that we shouldn't really remember.
And there are so
many different types of people
in the world that when
disability as a topic comes up,
we wanna consider all of the different
ways that people move through the world.
What are people's bodies?
How does that impact how they
interact with a computer?
If someone has a vision disability, that's
kind of the area we hear about the most,
with people who use screen readers.
So we'll dive way into screen
readers in the next section.
But vision is one aspect of disability.
Someone could have limited movement if
they can't use a mouse, a pointing device.
Cognitive disabilities for thinking,
remembering, learning, communicating.
Hearing, that's a big one for
accessibility that's often forgotten, so
things like transcripts and
closed captions.
This workshop will need to be
captioned for people to follow along.
And people can have more
than one disability.
People don't fit neatly into little boxes.
And so we wanna consider the broad kind
of spectrum of the human experience
when it comes to disability,
cuz it can affect anyone at any time.
So it really affects all of us
when you think of it that way,
it's not the other person,
it's someone else.
It's not my customer, it's not my problem.
Well, if you've look a little closer,
it probably is.
Your co-worker or
your customer might have color blindness.
They might have diabetes and
they're at risk of losing their eyesight.
I hear these stories all the time when
you ask people and they go, wait,
I do have a connection to this.
And so, yeah.
>> I got my eyes dilated yesterday,
and as I was sitting there waiting,
I was looking at my phone,
everything got blurrier and blurrier.
And then I left and
then I had to do something on my phone and
I couldn't read my phone anymore.
So I had to pull out the accessibility
zoomer [LAUGH] on my phone.
So that type of stuff affected
me directly yesterday.
>> Wow, yeah, and
your phone has great tools for that.
>> Yeah.
>> My parents have their phones
zoomed way in, you look over and
their font size is huge.
Technology is adaptive, and it's so
cool, I mean, bicycles are adaptive.
There's all kinds of things in
the world now that we can adapt to make
them suit our lived experience more.
And the web has so many different
things that we can make better.
And they're not even that hard, it's
just it's stuff that gets marginalized.
So I'm here, I'm here to hold your hand.
[LAUGH] And we're gonna do it
cuz there's so many easy wins.
The most accessibility issues that
we see out there in the world
are really easy things to fix.
So we can be glass half full thinkers,
and just go, all right,
we've got lots of stuff we can fix,
so let's fix it.
Let's build it right from the first
time because it's is really adaptive and
we can make it work.
And I'm pretty optimistic about it.
So it's really easy to find
accessibility failures out there.
And accessibility folks, I love them.
I think it's part of the coping mechanism
[LAUGH] of dealing with the fact that
the web isn't very accessible is to
point out the failures and as a group,
be like [SOUND] isn't this terrible?
But we need more wins, too.
It's like we don't wanna be drowning in
misery, we want to highlight our wins.
So I encourage you, when you get
something that's an improvement
even if it's a work-in-progress,
celebrate it.
Give kudos to your teammates,
share things with your teams,
share what you've learned if you've got
the capacity [LAUGH] to write it down.
Some of the blog posts
that I wrote in the past,
I'm really glad I wrote them because I
captured what I learned at the time.
And I just wanna encourage
everyone to celebrate your wins.
I created a blog a while back called
Accessibility Wins that was aimed at
doing this.
It got a little hard to maintain because
I've always was striving for perfection,
and that's just not realistic.
We don't need to be perfect,
we just need to keep putting in
the effort to make things better.
And if it takes a number of cycles or
iterations on something to get it
better and better, I think that's okay.
But we've got some really important
reasons to overcome what I'm calling
access debt.
So we have design debt, we have
technical debt, we have access debt.
Stuff in our code base.
I mean, the design and development are so
overlapping in what create these problems,
that we've got a unique type of
debt that is accessibility debt.
And the reasons that we need to
overcome it, the most basic reason,
thinking back to the Capitol Crawl and
the disability rights and
activism, it's a civil
right to have access.
And that should be enough,
that really should be enough of a reason.
It's something we've been fighting for for
decades, and we really should honor that,
it's the right thing to do.
Sometimes that is just lost
in translation, and so
depending on who you need to convince.
Maybe you have some other stakeholders or
co-workers or
people who just don't care for
whatever reason.
There's other reasons that we
can kinda pull out as a carrot.
We have the carrot and
the stick way of communicating our
reasons why this is important.
The legal issues are a big stick to use.
People, depending on
what country you're in,
you have different laws that make
accessibility a requirement.
Especially in certain sectors,
anything procured by the federal
government, education.
There's lots of different areas
where the legal side applies.
It's not my favorite aspect of it but
it is part of it.
Sometimes pride in your craft is
the way to get through to people,
like being pragmatic about
quality in your software.
And sometimes that can be the angle
to get someone sort of selfishly to
care about it is that you
can make it easier to test.
You could make it more robust.
Being able to make your application
respond to different user inputs that you
haven't even thought of yet.
It's just more robust software, and
the web is mostly accessible by default,
we just have to try not to mess it up.
And then there's business cases.
If you have to convince
the business stakeholders,
maybe there's a way to persuade
these folks about having
a larger customer reach,
a risk of losing out on business.
And so, yeah, there's all of these
different levers that we can kind of
pull to make the case for accessibility,
which I do have to say though.
As a single interactive developer,
UI developer, full stack,
wherever your role is,
this is a little bit much to try and
carry this weight on your back
all the time, to be like,
I'm doing this work and trying to
convince everyone around me to do it.
So I want you to give yourself some grace.
That's why accessibility can
be sort of draining, but
I want to invigorate you to find
the things that you can control and
that you can change, and
we wanna make progress.
That's why celebrating
those wins is important.
We wanna balance all this
with getting our job done and
upholding quality among all the other
things that we have to think about.
I have some links here if you want
to learn more about the legal side.
There is a link in here about Target's
legal case, sort of relevant.
It's how I got into accessibility
was because of that legal case,
so if you wanna read about that.